The President:
Hi, everybody.
On Friday, I met with leaders of
both parties in Congress to try
and find a way forward in light
of the severe budget cuts --
known in Washington
as "the sequester" --
that have already started to
inflict pain on communities
across the country.
These cuts are not smart.
They'll hurt our economy
and cost us jobs.
And Congress can turn
them off at any time --
as soon as both sides are
willing to compromise.
As a nation, we've already
fought back from the worst
economic crisis
of our lifetimes,
and we'll get through this, too.
But at a time when our
businesses are finally gaining
some traction --
hiring new workers,
bringing jobs back to America --
the last thing Washington should
do is to get in their way.
That's what these cuts
to education and research,
and defense will do.
It's unnecessary.
And at a time when too many of
our friends and neighbors are
still looking for
work, it's inexcusable.
Now, it's important
to understand that,
while not everyone will feel the
pain of these cuts right away,
the pain will be real.
Many middle-class families will
have their lives disrupted in a
significant way.
Beginning this week, businesses
that work with the military will
have to lay folks off.
Communities near military
bases will take a serious blow.
Hundreds of thousands of
Americans who serve their
country -- Border Patrol
agents, FBI agents,
civilians who work for
the Defense Department --
will see their wages cut
and their hours reduced.
This will cause a ripple
effect across the economy.
Businesses will suffer because
customers will have less
money to spend.
The longer these cuts remain in
place, the greater the damage.
Economists estimate they could
eventually cost us more than
750,000 jobs and slow our
economy by over one-half of
one percent.
Here's the thing: none
of this is necessary.
It's happening because
Republicans in Congress chose
this outcome over closing a
single wasteful tax loophole
that helps reduce the deficit.
Just this week, they decided
that protecting special interest
tax breaks for the well-off and
well-connected is more important
than protecting our military
and middle-class families
from these cuts.
I still believe we can and
must replace these cuts with a
balanced approach -- one that
combines smart spending cuts
with entitlement reform and
changes to our tax code that
make it more fair for families
and businesses without raising
anyone's tax rates.
That's how we can reduce our
deficit without laying off
workers, or forcing parents
and students to pay the price.
I don't think that's
too much to ask.
It's the kind of approach I've
proposed for two years now.
A majority of the American
people agree with me on this
approach -- including a
majority of Republicans.
We just need Republicans in
Congress to catch up with their
own party and the
rest of the country.
Now, I know there are
Republicans in Congress who
would actually rather see tax
loopholes closed than let these
cuts go through.
And I know there are Democrats
who'd rather do smart
entitlement reform than
let these cuts go through.
There's a caucus of
common sense out there.
And I'm going to keep
reaching out to them to fix
this for good.
Because the American people are
weary of perpetual partisanship
and brinksmanship.
This is America, and in America,
we don't just bounce from one
manufactured crisis to another.
We make smart choices.
We plan.
We prioritize.
So I'm going to push through
this paralysis and keep fighting
for the real challenges
facing middle-class families.
I'm going to keep pushing for
high-quality preschool for every
family that wants it, and make
sure the minimum wage becomes a
wage you can live on.
I'm going to keep pushing to
fix our immigration system,
repair our
transportation system,
and keep our children
safe from gun violence.
That's the work you
elected me to do.
And that's what I'm focused
on every single day.
Thanks so much.